RHDEVDOCS-4259 GCP CLF for logging 5.5.1 (#49578)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-collector-log-forward-gcp.adoc

> :_content-type: PROCEDURE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * 
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
```

[id="cluster-logging-collector-log-forward-gcp_{context}"]

> = Forwarding logs to Google Cloud Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Forwarding logs to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
```

You can forward logs to link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/basic-concepts[Google Cloud Logging] in addition to, or instead of, the internal default {product-title} log store.

[NOTE]
====

> Using this feature with fluentd is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this feature with Fluentd is not supported.
```

====

.Prerequisites
* {logging-title-uc} Operator 5.5.1 and later

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Procedure

. <first step> etc.
+
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogForwarder"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
  namespace: "openshift-logging"
spec:
  outputs:
    - name: gcp-1
      type: googleCloudLogging
      secret:
        name: gcp-secret
      googleCloudLogging: <1>
        projectId : "openshift-gce-devel"
        logId : "app-gcp" <2>
  pipelines:
    - name: test-app
      inputRefs:
        - application
          #- infrastructure
      outputRefs:
        - gcp-1
----

> <1> Exactly one of projectId, folderId, organizationId, or billingAccountId must be set depending on where you want to store your logs in the link:https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/cloud-platform-resource-hierarchy[GCP resource hierarchy].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set either a `projectId`, `folderId`, `organizationId`, or `billingAccountId` stanza, depending on where you want to store your logs in the link:https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/cloud-platform-resource-hierarchy[GCP resource hierarchy].
```
- Used active voice, put backticks around items that appear in code, and made them adjectives of the noun, "stanza."

> <2> The logId is added to the `logName` field of the link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/v2/rest/v2/LogEntry[Log Entry].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Set the `logId` value to add to the `logName` field of the link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/v2/rest/v2/LogEntry[Log Entry].
```
Made this parallel to the first callout.

> == Additional Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional Resources
```
Modules have an `.Additional resources` heading with a `role` attribute. Assemblies have an `== Additional resources` heading with a unique ID.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// cluster-logging-external.adoc
//

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-collector-log-forward-gcp_{context}"]
= Forwarding logs to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

You can forward logs to link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/basic-concepts[Google Cloud Logging] in addition to, or instead of, the internal default {product-title} log store.

[NOTE]
====
Using this feature with Fluentd is not supported.
====

.Prerequisites
* {logging-title-uc} Operator 5.5.1 and later

.Procedure

. Create a `ClusterLogForwarder` Custom Resource YAML using the template below:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogForwarder"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
  namespace: "openshift-logging"
spec:
  outputs:
    - name: gcp-1
      type: googleCloudLogging
      secret:

>         name: gcp-secret

Reviewer 2: For the gcp-secret we can give an example of creating the secret using the Google service account key.

`oc -n openshift-logging create secret generic gcp-secret --from-file google-application-credentials.json=SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY_FILE.json`

Reviewer 3: @libander  Could you add this step?

      googleCloudLogging: <1>
        projectId : "openshift-gce-devel"
        logId : "app-gcp" <2>
  pipelines:
    - name: test-app

>       inputRefs:

Reviewer 2: We can add the <3> point here for inputRefs with description. _Specify which log types to forward by using the pipeline: application, infrastructure, or audit._ Also remove the #- infrastructure

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// cluster-logging-external.adoc
//

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-collector-log-forward-gcp_{context}"]
= Forwarding logs to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

You can forward logs to link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/basic-concepts[Google Cloud Logging] in addition to, or instead of, the internal default {product-title} log store.

[NOTE]
====
Using this feature with Fluentd is not supported.
====

.Prerequisites
* {logging-title-uc} Operator 5.5.1 and later

.Procedure

. Create a secret using your link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys[Google service account key].
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc -n openshift-logging create secret generic gcp-secret --from-file google-application-credentials.json=_<your_service_account_key_file.json>_
----

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

. Create a `ClusterLogForwarder` Custom Resource YAML using the template below:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogForwarder"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
  namespace: "openshift-logging"
spec:
  outputs:
    - name: gcp-1
      type: googleCloudLogging
      secret:
        name: gcp-secret

>       googleCloudLogging: <1>
>         projectId : "openshift-gce-devel"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      googleCloudLogging:
        projectId : "openshift-gce-devel" <1>
```
Would it be clearer to put callout #1 here instead?

        logId : "app-gcp" <2>
  pipelines:
    - name: test-app
      inputRefs: <3>
        - application
      outputRefs:
        - gcp-1
----

> <1> Set either a `projectId`, `folderId`, `organizationId`, or `billingAccountId` stanza, depending on where you want to store your logs in the link:https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/cloud-platform-resource-hierarchy[GCP resource hierarchy].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set either a `projectId`, `folderId`, `organizationId`, or `billingAccountId` name-value pair, depending on where you want to store your logs in the link:https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/cloud-platform-resource-hierarchy[GCP resource hierarchy].
```

> <2> Set the `logId` value to add to the `logName` field of the link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/v2/rest/v2/LogEntry[Log Entry].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Set the value to add to the `logName` field of the link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/v2/rest/v2/LogEntry[Log Entry].
```

Reviewer: Annotations generally avoid repeating the name of the field they are about.

<3> Specify which log types to forward by using the pipeline: `application`, `infrastructure`, or `audit`.

[role="_additional-resources"]

> .Additional Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Additional resources
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// cluster-logging-external.adoc
//

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-collector-log-forward-gcp_{context}"]
= Forwarding logs to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

You can forward logs to link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/basic-concepts[Google Cloud Logging] in addition to, or instead of, the internal default {product-title} log store.

[NOTE]
====
Using this feature with Fluentd is not supported.
====

.Prerequisites
* {logging-title-uc} Operator 5.5.1 and later

.Procedure

. Create a secret using your link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys[Google service account key].
+

> [subs="+quotes"]

Reviewer 4: This needs a source tag `source,terminal` added before the `subs="+quotes"` per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#code-blocks-command-syntax-and-example-output

----

> oc -n openshift-logging create secret generic gcp-secret --from-file google-application-credentials.json=_<your_service_account_key_file.json>_

Reviewer 4: The command needs an appropriate prompt ('$' or '#'),  per
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#code-blocks-command-syntax-and-example-output

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-collector-log-forward-gcp_{context}"]
= Forwarding logs to Google Cloud Platform

You can forward logs to Google Cloud Logging in addition to, or instead of, the internal default {product-title} log store.

[NOTE]
====
Using this feature with fluentd is not supported.
====

.Prerequisites
* {logging-title-uc} Operator 5.5.1 and later

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogForwarder"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
  namespace: "openshift-logging"
spec:
  outputs:
    - name: gcp-1
      type: googleCloudLogging
      secret:
        name: gcp-secret
      googleCloudLogging: <1>
        projectId : "openshift-gce-devel"

>         logId : "app-gcp"

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        logId : "app-gcp" <2>
```

Reviewer 5: logId, projectId etc. shoud be "logID", "projectID" - if we've released the code that way already I guess we have to live with it.

Author: https://github.com/openshift/cluster-logging-operator/pull/1614/files#diff-8f9105693decf749520b1f29a67276eef07601e8873521c61d38a5b93e667ec6

  pipelines:
    - name: test-app
      inputRefs:
        - application
          #        - infrastructure
      outputRefs:
        - gcp-1
----
<1> billingAccountID, folderID, organizationID, or projectID must be set //differences? why pick one over another?

> <3>
> <4>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
<2> The logId is added to the `logName` field of the link:https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/v2/rest/v2/LogEntry[Log Entry]
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
type GoogleCloudLogging struct {
    // Exactly one of billingAccountID, folderID, organizationID, or projectID must be set.
    // Reference: https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/concepts
    BillingAccountID string `json:"billingAccountId,omitempty"`
    OrganizationID string `json:"organizationId,omitempty"`
    FolderID string `json:"folderId,omitempty"`
    ProjectID string `json:"projectId,omitempty"`

    //LogID is the log ID to which to publish logs. This identifies log stream.
    //+optional
    LogID string `json:"logId,omitempty"`

    SeverityKey string `json:"severityKey,omitempty"`
}
----

> 

Author: We don't, this was still marked draft.
